# Facemask-Detection-using-YOLOv3-Tiny-PRN

I. Introduction
Wearing a facemask is the easiest way to limit the COVID-19 transmission. Thanks to this, automated recognition systems like facemask detectors could check that individuals correctly wear facemasks in regulated areas. Many folks do not seem to be correctly wearing their masks and, worse, not wearing a facemask. This is often thanks to bad practices, deviant behaviors, or vulnerability of people (e.g., children, older people). For these reasons, several campaigns like [1] proper wearing of facemasks are conducted to make people aware of this problem and good habits of wearing masks properly. During this context, we created this project program to detect a facemask on human faces on live stream videos and reminds the people within the vicinity if it detects someone not wearing or improperly wearing a facemask by playing a sound. This work proposes applying YOLOv3-tiny-prn and facemask datasets, namely good for the correct wearing of facemask, bad for the improper wearing of facemask, and no mask for not wearing a facemask to test if the person is correctly wearing their facemask. We used deep learning to develop our face detection model and chosen YOLOv3 architecture thanks to its higher inference speed suitable for real-time detection. In addition, we visualized the presence or absence of a mask in a video stream using the fundamentals of transfer learning in neural networks. Experiments reveal that our model performs well on test data, with precision and recall of 74.07 percent and 39.8 percent, respectively.

[Click Here to read the full documentation](https://www.academia.edu/51005423/Proper_Facemask_Wearing_Detection_and_Reminder_System_using_Yolov3_Tiny_PRN_Architecture)
